# Movie_Prediction_With_Linear_Regression
Machine Learning Project


Movies are the best way of for entertaining people for a long time. It is the best way to enjoy but everything
depend upon the type of movies and their success rate. That’s why only few movies get success and higher
ratings among other movies produced by the industry in a year. Movie revenue is totally based on various
components of the movies such as the actors working in the movie, past success of those actors, film critics
review, rating for the movie, release year, time, date etc. of the movie. We don’t have any formula that can 
help us to provide analysis for predicting how much revenue a particular movie is generating because of
these multiple components and criteria. But by analyzing the revenues generated by previous movies, a
model can be built which can act helpful to predict the expected revenue for a particular movie. Various
stakeholders such as actors, producers, directors etc. can use these predictions to make more informed
decisions. Historical data of each component such as actor, actress, and director, composer that influences
the success or failure of a movie is given due a weightage. This proposed work aims to develop a model
based upon the data mining techniques that may help in predicting the success of a movie in advance thereby
reducing certain level of uncertainty. As we all know in today’s world the movie is the biggest source of
entertainment and also the movie making for the business purpose. The main aim of any business is profit 
and we all know either it is a movie making business or any other business, all we want is profit and success.
For this we need technology through which we can predict the success of the movie. If we will be able to
predict the future of the movie in correct manner then it will be easy for the businessman to make changes
in their project by improving the contents of the movie so that they can get higher revenue from it.The best
and efficient way to find the detailed information about almost movie is IMDB A huge amount of data,
which contains much valuable information about general trends of movies and people’s interest is available
there. Data mining techniques enable us to uncover information which will both conform and disprove
common assumptions about movie and by this we can be able to predict the success of the movie before its
release For this we are here using R-Software for predicting the movie success rate to do this first we get
data from various sources like kaggle.com , and after that we generate the data set. After getting data we
are generating the training and test data set. In that data set we generate a training set to build the model,
while a test set is there to validate the model built.On the basis of generated model,the prediction have been
done and results have been generated. By using that result that we get from the model we can easily predict
that the movie is going to be super-hit, blockbuster or flop.
